## Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs)

### What are Non-Governmental Organizations?

A non-governmental organization (NGO) is any group organized on a local, national or international level that is neither a part of a government nor a conventional for-profit business.  Task-oriented and driven to create social wealth rather than material wealth, NGOs operates in what is commonly referred to as the non-profit sector, whose purpose is to improve and enrich society.  They perform a variety of service and humanitarian functions, bring citizen concerns to Governments, advocate and monitor policies and encourage political participation through provision of information. Some are organized around specific issues, such as human rights, environment or health. They provide analysis and expertise, serve as early warning mechanisms for crises and help monitor and implement international agreements.

Non-governmental organizations are sometimes referred to as civil society , voluntary, not-for-profit, social and even the beyond profit organizations. They are usually set up by ordinary citizens and may be funded by governments, foundations, businesses, or private persons.  As standalone entities, NGOs differ from governments who provides basic social welfare in addition to legislation and for-profit businesses that have non-fi足nan足cial or social ob足jec足tives in addition to financial objectives.  However, partnering across sectors for social good is increasing popular.

In addition, its increasingly popular for the social mission of a non-profit to blend with the market-driven approach of a business to form a social enterprise.  A social enterprise not only takes a market-driven approach of a business but often employs the tools of a business, something that NGOs can learn.  For a more detailed article defining social enterprise, click [here](https://socialenterprise.us/about/social-enterprise/).
